- Okay, good morning.
Welcome to the 2004 edition
of the printing session.
My name is Paul Zambold,
technology manager,
evangelist for printing.
As always, we've got a lot of good stuff,
so let's get started.
We're gonna begin by looking at how
far we've come and where we're going
in Tiger with the printing system.
See how we're doing in
making things easy for you,
making things easy for the customer.
We'll start with kind of the report card
on where we stand with compatibility,
mainly with printers,
how many you can connect to the Mac,
ease of use, functionality,
and not just functionality for the user,
all the bells and whistles
in the print dialog,
but the APIs that you use to
interact with the printing system.
Compatibility.
I want to start with a little
bit of audience participation.
Who's used one of these printers?
Okay, so I know how many people are
at least 30 years old or older.
If you don't know,
that's an image writer printer.
That's actually an image writer 2.
Image writer shipped first
just over 20 years ago.
And this is the image writer
that I've got in my office.
I don't know how old it is, but it works.
I went to Linux.org,
downloaded the Fumatic driver,
and I can print to it from 10.
So, pretty good.
And anybody here who played a
part in writing that driver,
thank you very much.
I don't use it a lot.
It's not very fast.
It's 144 DPI in best mode,
so it's not great, but it works.
Panther shipped with a little over
120 PPDEs for PostScript printers
from the well-known vendors,
close on 300 old-style
so-called Tioga drivers from HP,
Epson, Canon, Lexmark,
and we got the GIMP print package in
Panther that supports over 250 printers.
So we're doing pretty well.
We're planning on building
on that list for Tiger,
so you can expect that out of box,
Tiger will ship with even more drivers,
and we're working closely
with the printer vendors
to make sure that happens.
So we think we're doing pretty
well there on making sure that
any user of Mac OS X can print
to pretty much any printer,
Direct Connect, network, et cetera.
On the ease of use topic,
making things easy for the everyday user,
professional user,
I thought we'd look at four things that
most people do from one time or another.
Discovering printers, setting up cues,
sharing those printers,
and interacting with the printers
through the print dialog and getting
access to all the printer's features.
If you remember that old image rightly,
remember that users used to
have to think about the driver
before they went to print.
They'd have to pick the
driver and then the printer.
And then in Mac OS X,
when we came out with Print Center,
we decided that it was better for
the user to think about the way the
printer was connected to the Mac.
So they picked the connection type, USB,
rendezvous, et cetera,
and then picked the printer.
And we had these browsers that
were loaded by Print Center,
Printer Setup Utility,
that would provide support for
those various connection types.
Well,
the only problem with that is it took
a little while to find those browsers,
load them, call them,
and get the list of printers.
And just a little movie I caught
on my PowerBook back in my office,
you can see that it would take about,
on a good day,
maybe about 10 or more seconds
to load all those browsers.
So we weren't too thrilled with it.
that.
Now, coming up next is what
we've done on Tiger.
And we don't have a network
of printers in Moscone,
so I'm going to show you another movie
that I caught back again in my office.
As you can see, if you watch this,
what we've done in Tiger is we've
combined -- we've created a combo browser
for all the standard connection types.
And as you can see here,
you can sort by name,
you can sort by connection type,
you can filter, as you see there.
And you
So, it's a lot faster.
Basically,
there's no latency between clicking the
add button and seeing a list of printers.
Having done that,
you can go and set up cues very easily.
There's a separate, there's an icon,
so you can go and set up your IP printer,
because of course you can't
browse for those so easily.
And there's still access to the
third party custom browsers.
So, we've tried to cover all the bases,
and overall we think that the user
experience is going to be a lot
better for the folks who have to
go out on the network for testing.
For example, to set up a printer cue.
That said, of course you know that even
as far back as Puma 10.1,
we had auto cue curation
for some connection types.
So, we're still expecting the
user not to even have to worry
about printer setup utility for
things like USB and Rendezvous.
Next thing that people do a lot
is they share their printers,
or they share their printer queues,
and we introduced that when
we integrated CUPS into the
printing system back in 10.2.
The UI for it though
gave you just one choice,
share all your printers or none of them,
and that was okay if you just
had one printer queue for say
a Direct Connect USB printer.
It wasn't so good if you had a lot
of printer queues set up on your Mac,
especially for network printers.
So in Tiger,
you'll see this when you install Tiger,
we now have via the print and
fax system preference the ability
to list the printers you've got,
the Direct Connect printers you've got,
and selectively share them.
However, if you spot the little
bit of red text on that,
you'll see that we haven't
quite hooked the UI up to
the underlying functionality,
so a future Tiger SEED will
have that working.
So I think users will appreciate that,
the ability just to share.
You know,
the printer that you are happy to share,
and that expensive printer that
you like to use all the time with
the expensive inks and papers,
you can keep that to yourself.
Another thing that people do,
especially in the world where people
work with network laser printers,
typically PostScript printers,
when they discover the
printer on the network,
they have to configure it.
They basically have to tell
the host computer about
the printer's capabilities.
Now, it doesn't usually apply if
you've got an AppleTalk printer
because we can query the printer
and get back its configuration.
But for an IP printer,
you have to do it manually.
And this little movie again
shows the steps involved in that.
Typing in the address of the printer,
setting up the queue,
and then having done that,
you have to go to the installable
options panel and tell the host
computer that you've got that
extra paper tray installed or
you've got the duplexer installed,
et cetera.
So we're expecting a little more of
the user than should be required.
Just let that movie complete.
So this is what we're
planning to do in Tigra.
You won't see this when you
install the seed that you have.
But we are planning-- and we've already
got some code in place-- to support
SNMP as part of the printing system.
And with SNMP queries
embedded in a PPD file,
we should be able to-- for an IP printer,
we should be able to find out
how it's configured and do
that automatic setup that we do
already for Apple Talk printers.
So again, that'll make life a little
easier for the user.
We'll also be using SNMP to
monitor printer status during
the execution of a print job.
So for your LPR printers,
you'll be able to see more about
what's going on by querying
the MIB during the print job.
Okay,
one more thing in terms of ease of use
is the functionality we provide all the
bells and whistles in the print dialog.
And what we did in Panther,
as you probably all know,
we added a bunch more panels,
a lot of new features,
things like printing cover pages,
being able to schedule when you print,
doing reverse order
printing and printing odd,
even sheets, et cetera.
That was all well and good,
but it resulted in a lot of
panels in the print dialog.
So we've decided to do a little bit
of cleanup and add -- and still add
some functionality to the print dialog.
And to show you that,
we have our fearless demo guy here,
Alan Beck,
who's just going to come up and live
show you the Tiger print dialog.
We could have demo one on the screen.
So I'm just going to go ahead and bring
up one of my favorite test documents,
King Tut.
Just bring up the print dialog.
And here you'll see that we have somewhat
rearranged these buttons on here.
We've added a PDF button,
a pop down command.
The Mac OS X printing system is a simple,
easy-to-use,
and easy-to-use software that
combines the Save As PDF and
the Save As PostScript.
We have gotten rid of
the output options PDE.
Revamped the summary PDE to make
it more useful so you can see the
information that you want and hide the
information you really don't care about.
Like,
I really don't care about copies pages,
but I always really want
to know what my layout is.
So one nice thing about this
is it will remember what
What PDE summaries you have
opened on a per user basis.
So next time I bring up the print
dialog and show the summary,
it will still come up
in this configuration.
So if we just go back to,
let's go back to layout.
Let's change it to end up with
a double thin line border.
And let's go to the summary pane.
It shows that, okay, I'm now...
The other thing that we
have done is we have added
Look at the paper handling PDE.
We've added selecting the
destination paper size.
Basically,
it allows us to scale to fit to a
certain paper size that you know
that is currently in the printer.
So if we do this, we know it's US letter,
but we know, let's say,
we only have envelopes in the printer.
So what it'll do is it'll scale to fit.
This is our envelope with
the Kingtat scale to fit.
So we don't get the clipping,
we don't lose.
It's kind of a quick way of
getting a printout if you don't
have the correct paper size.
So that's basically all that has
changed in the print dialogue.
I think everything else is
basically the same right now.
I'm not saying it won't change
further by the time Tiger ships,
but this is what was currently planned.
So let's move on to PrintCenter.
Here I have one printer here.
We actually do have a Rendezvous printer,
so if I could just click the add button,
and we actually is one
Rendezvous printer,
LaserJet 4300.
I will select it.
You'll see that it's gathering
information from the printer.
Once it finds it,
And it's using, then when it selects
that PPD automatically,
we just go ahead and
add it if we wanted to.
And that's the change
to printer-type utility.
Now if you just go to the printer proxy,
one thing we have added is we have added
another tab to show your completed jobs.
It'll tell you the, you know,
the name of the job, how it finished,
whether it be finished normally,
canceled, or an error.
And it'll tell you when it completed.
As you can so tell,
I was doing this final
preparation of this demo a
little bit early this morning.
Another thing that we have heard from
you and other users is they want to,
a held job,
you want to resume on a certain page.
So we've added that.
If you go to the jobs menu,
you can go to resume on page,
and you can enter any
page number that you want.
The printer isn't really here,
so I'm just going to go
ahead and stop the job.
The other thing you can
do with that is you can,
we've actually added another
toolbar widget for it.
Resume on page.
So there.
[Transcript missing]
Thanks Alan.
So just a quick summary.
Things that we've done so far in Tiger,
we've provided that integrated
printer browser as you saw,
we've got or will have soon the fine
control over which printers you share,
SNMP supports going in,
scale to fit in the print dialogue,
improved functionality
in the desktop printers,
and we're obviously working on more.
The point I want to make here
is please test this stuff.
You know, you've got the first --
your first build of Tiger,
you'll be getting more, of course,
and whether you're writing
applications or writing printer
drivers or printer utilities,
whatever, I mean,
please start testing as soon as you can.
Obviously the overall
quality of Tiger will depend
a lot on your contributions.
And I'm sure everybody
knows how to file bugs,
so please feel welcome.
I'll change gears a little bit now.
We're going to talk about APIs.
And for anybody writing applications,
this stuff is going to
be relevant for you.
One thing that you might have
noticed over the last few years,
we've had some API creep
in the printing system.
We've got these two header files,
PMApplication and PMCore to provide
most of the low-level APIs for printing.
Most of those APIs are used internally
by the various CocoaPrint methods.
And as you can see,
we're up over 200 APIs by
obviously incrementally
improving the printing system.
We added things like PMPrinter APIs,
the PMWorkflow APIs, et cetera,
over the last few releases.
We thought that we were a
little too heavy on APIs,
so what we've done for Tygo is
we've deprecated 80 of them.
So if you are using any of the old ones,
you can use the old ones.
If you're using the old ones,
If you're using the old non-session APIs,
the legacy laser iterate printing APIs,
any of the APIs that we're
trying to write things out to
do with the old print record,
you will get, when you try to compile
your code on Tygo,
you'll get a very polite warning
that you're using a deprecated API.
So that's your signal to
go into the header file.
And as you can see
from a comment up here,
we'll tell you for every single
one of those 80 which one or
ones you should be using instead.
Deprecated doesn't mean
your code will crash.
It just means that you'll get
a warning at compile time and a
strong encouragement from Apple to
move on to the recommended APIs.
So please stop updating your
application printing code as soon as
you can and follow those guidelines.
And then I want to take a few minutes
to talk about the APIs that I hope most
of you are using directly or indirectly,
indirectly if you're using Cocoa,
to print.
And we're going to start by
looking at a bunch of APIs that are
usually worth calling before you
actually invoke the print dialog.
So after the print menu is being clicked,
these are some of the APIs you should
be using and we'll explain why.
One of the things we recommend is that
every time you hit the Print menu,
you start a new print session,
and you should create new print
settings and default them.
And the reason for that is that the user,
every time you go to print a document,
starts off with the default sensible set
of values for the various print settings.
And shown here is,
if you call default print settings,
obviously you reset copies back to one,
the page range, et cetera.
And better that than reusing
the print settings object and
inheriting your last settings from
the last print job to the next one.
Users can get confused or
annoyed when that happens.
So try to use that call.
Another one to call, if you're printing
multiple page documents,
is to set the page range.
That explicitly tells our
copies and pages print panel
what the valid page range is.
It stops the user typing in, you know,
print to page 99.
If you've only got a 10-page document.
So pretty obvious why
you should use that.
Enable printer presets.
Not for everybody,
but if your application prints images,
it's a good idea to enable the driver
installed presets for the printer.
Presets, if you're not familiar with the
ones that are bundled with drivers,
are recommended combinations of things
like paper types and resolution settings.
And users will be better off using
the ones defined by the printer
manufacturer than going into the
various panels and selecting ones
that they think are appropriate.
This is a convenient way of picking ones
that will yield good results on paper.
So you can do this by calling,
if you're a Carbon app,
enable printer presets.
There's an API to disable
them if you need to.
Cocoa apps can do this.
There's a step job style hint
that you can apply to the
NS Print Panel to do the same thing.
So if you're printing images,
enable driver presets.
Setting the job name is
another good thing to do.
And a sprint operation does
this for you automatically,
so you don't have to worry
about it if you're a Cocoa app.
Well, of course, you need to have a
meaningful window title.
CarbonApp should call this API.
This is actually a new API in Tiger,
but there's an equivalent
API for Panther and Jaguar.
It's PM Print Session
Set Job Name CFString.
So there's an API to do that.
Basically,
anything's better than seeing "untitled"
in that list of printers that you see
either in the desktop printer list
or on the CUPS web page or in -- or,
for example, when you print a disk,
you want to be primed with
a reasonable file name.
And the other thing is this
screenshot here shows if you're
looking at a print server,
it's useful to see what's being printed.
And So try to call that API.
Another one that we've been
talking about for years,
if you're a Carbon app,
you need to be doing this,
or you should be doing this if
you can display multiple windows.
Use the display your
print dialogs as a sheet.
Everybody knows then which
window they're actually printing.
This is the easy one.
I don't really have to
say anything about this.
Bring up the print dialogue,
having done all that preparation work.
After the print dialog
is being dismissed,
there's a few APIs you
might want to be calling.
If your application has a panel
or panels to the print dialog,
you probably want to get the settings
that the user selected in order to
control the way you draw the content
when you get into the print loop.
So this is the API you can use for that.
And there's sample code explaining that.
But we've added a new API in Tiger.
This is the one
PM Print Settings get value.
This enables you as an application
to get any print settings value.
So don't abuse this,
but you can see what the driver's
PDEs have added to the print settings.
You probably don't want to be
altering the way you draw your
document according to that,
but you can get any setting out
of the print settings object after
the print dialog's been dismissed.
After the print dialog
is being dismissed,
there's a few APIs you
might want to be calling.
If your application has a panel
or panels to the print loop,
you probably want to get the settings
that the user selected in order to
control the way you draw the content
when you get into the print loop.
So this is the API you
might want to be calling.
If your application has a panel
or panels to the print loop,
you probably want to get any setting
out of the print settings object after
the print dialog's been dismissed.
After the print dialog's been dismissed,
there's a few APIs you
might want to be calling.
If your application has a panel
or panels to the print loop,
you probably want to get the settings
that the user selected in order to
control the way you draw the content
when you get into the print loop.
So this is the API you
might want to be calling.
If your application has a panel
or panels to the print loop,
you probably want to get the settings
that the user selected in order to
control the way you draw the content
when you get into the print loop.
So now to the print loop.
I'm sure everybody heard this week
that Quickdraw is being deprecated.
And I think there's a session
tomorrow on moving to Quartz 2D.
So if you haven't already heard
all the good stuff about Quartz 2D,
please go to that session.
I think it's --
Somebody will have to remind me.
Tomorrow afternoon.
Two o'clock.
Thank you.
So this is the old print loop,
drawing everything with Quick Draw.
That will still work,
but obviously we want you to move on.
Maybe by now you've already started
to take advantage of Quartz 2D,
and for a while now we've had these
APIs enabling you to draw some content
on your pages in a core graphics context,
and the Begin and CG Context
APIs enable you to do that,
effectively to mix
Quick Draw and Core Graphics,
and remember the coordinate
spaces are different.
So that was something that
hopefully you've been doing.
But there's an even better way
in Tiger to explicitly tell the
printing system you're going to
exclusively use Core Graphics calls
to draw everything on the page.
And this API begins CG, document,
tells the printing system, you know,
you've got to do this.
And you've moved to Quartz 2D.
You can do the same thing
on Panther or Jaguar,
but not with this API because
it wasn't available then,
but you can still set up a Core Graphics
Context and draw everything in.
But with Tiger,
there's just a more convenient
way to do that with this new API.
And talking about that,
I have to plug our
unified PDF imaging model.
This is a slide lifted from last year.
I'm not going to go
into a lot of details,
but I'm sure everybody knows
by now that if you use the
recommended PDF print path,
you get a lot of benefits.
Print preview, you get to take advantage
of the PDF workflow,
and all the other things mentioned here.
If, for whatever reasons,
you are obliged to
generate PostScript code,
then our recommendation,
this is the same recommendation
we had last year,
is to use the job submission APIs.
So don't use the printing system
to generate a PostScript print job.
Generate the PostScript print
job yourself,
and then use the job submission
APIs to send that PostScript job
directly to the print queue.
I'm mentioning here on the bottom
bullet item two new APIs that may remove
one of the excuses you had for using
the legacy laser iterate print path.
You can now use these APIs to generate
your PostScript font data and put them
into your PostScript file that you will
submit with the job submission APIs.
I should mention that not all
applications choose to use the
print dialog when you go to print.
Some applications have their own UI.
Some applications or
tools don't need a UI,
and they certainly don't want to
see the spooling dialog displayed.
So there's the so-called no-dialog
variance of the PrintLoop APIs.
And you can see them here.
That's the old way.
Of course,
now that you're moving to Course2D,
there's a corresponding
API to the beginCG document.
There's a CG document no-dialog,
which will tell the printing system,
I'm going through the PrintLoop,
but I don't want to see
the spooling dialog.
But, and this is no different
from last year with Panther,
there's a better way of
doing that kind of thing,
and that's the job submission API.
It's very simple to do.
Our desktop printer code does it.
If you drop a file
onto a desktop printer,
We...
We check the printing system.
We ask it, does the printer queue accept
a file of this MIME type?
If we get back an answer that
says this MIME type supported,
we submit the job.
And to show you how good that is,
I ran a few tests on just my
humble old PowerBook back in my
office with a variety of documents.
And as you can see, any document I print,
if the file's already on disk,
I can print it in a couple of
seconds with the job submission API.
So you should be thinking about
using this if your application has
the ability to generate its own
printer-compatible file format,
PDF, PostScript, TIFF, GIF, et cetera.
So strongly encourage
you to explore that.
And as you can see here,
you can get huge performance
benefits if you take that approach.
So at this point,
I'm going to hand over to-- oh, no.
I'm going to summarize these slides.
And then I'm going to hand over to Alan.
Deprecated.
We've deprecated about 80 APIs.
Watch for those when
you compile your code.
Use those recommended APIs before
you bring out the print dialog
so that everything works
smoothly in the print dialog.
Move away from Quick Draw.
We've got APIs to help you do that.
And last but not least,
the job submission APIs.
great way of speeding up
printing from your application.
And now for something new:
Cocoa Print Panels.
And here's Alan.
At Panthership last year,
we were sitting around saying, "Okay,
what part of the printing system has been
rewritten in the past two and a half,
three years?"
And, oh, the print dialog code
hasn't been rewritten yet.
So basically what we've been working
on is rewriting the print dialog
code and page setup dialog code to
enable the inclusion of Cocoa PDEs.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to build a simple PDE,
Cocoa PDE, that
Basically, this is the old code that's on
your developer examples printing.
Now basically, if we go through here,
we kind of see what we're doing.
A lot of comments.
And then we get to here, we have, oh,
we have to define how big we are.
Define is the,
let's see what else we have.
Oh, we have this whole IOWN known stuff,
IOWN known instance.
And really, that's kind of hard to
figure out sometimes.
We have this contact stuff.
We have, we have our prologue.
This is, and we get into actually
coding some of this stuff.
IOWN known, ADREF.
Not much having to do with printing
when you're writing a Tioga-based PDE.
So what we have done is we have allowed
you to greatly simplify writing a PDE.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to take that old PDF.
I'm going to show you how
to use App SDK sample code.
And I am going to-- first thing
I'm going to do is add in a target.
And I am going to--
Add a Cocoa loadable bundle.
I'm going to name it "sampleapppde"
and add it to this project.
Okay, first thing I want to do
is set the properties.
And being as we are a Cocoa class,
I'm going to name it to be an NS...
Principal Class.
And what else do I need to do?
Go to the build and we need to add our,
this is my kind of cheat file right here,
add our framework search paths.
Print framework and our... I'm
just going to add that into here.
[Transcript missing]
Now this is the fun part.
I'm going to go to Interface Builder.
I'm going to select an empty Cocoa nib.
Let's see, what's next?
Let's go ahead and save this as...
Sample app PDE.
I'm going to add it to
the sample app PDE target.
Okay.
Now I'm going to, let's do this,
get the subclass right.
Let's take an NSObject.
Where did NSObject go?
Okay, there it is.
And we're going to subclass
this into BA sample app PDE.
And then go back to here, files owner,
and custom class, go down here,
sample app PDE.
Okay.
Now's the fun part.
Let's go up here,
let's just grab the view there,
just a NS view.
Let's make it a little bit bigger.
Let's add a checkbox.
Text only.
There we go.
Okay.
Now let's go back over here, I guess.
Now we need to add,
let's get our connections in there.
Some glass.
Let's go to connections.
Let's add some outlets.
[Transcript missing]
Let's add another one,
which would be our button.
Print selection button,
which is a button.
Okay, now let's just go ahead
and connect these up.
That's the app.
The button.
Okay, so everything's connected up.
Everything's basically, the nib's done.
Let's go ahead and select this and...
Danblot PDE.
Let's generate the classes.
Let's create the files for it.
That's right in the basic print loop.
Okay, let's go ahead and create those.
Okay, so they should be created
and they now should be,
should have appeared over
here in our project builder.
So now, where did they go?
Save.
I don't know where they actually went,
but either any way...
Basic Print Loop.
Here they are.
Basically, this is... Here's our .h file.
So basically,
what we want to do is... Let's go
to my little cheat sheet over here.
First thing I want to do
is you want an import.
One thing we have provided you is a
callback object that the PDE can call
back into to get information that
it needs about the printing system,
like, say, your print session,
your print settings, your page format,
your current printer.
There are a number of things that
you can get back from the printing
system while you're in your PDE,
so you don't have to remember it.
You can just call it whenever
you need the information.
The other thing we want to do is...
The Cocoa PDEs are
implemented as a protocol.
So basically what we want to do is,
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
now let's just go over to the .m file.
And I will just,
basically I'm just going to copy stuff
over that we need as we go through.
So we're going to include our
Basically, we're going to include our
interface for dialog extensions,
get some of the keys
we need out of there.
Okay, first thing we're going to do
is we have three static methods.
One of them is initialized
class and terminate class.
These are called when,
When this bundle is going to
be loaded for the first time,
you can return yes or no from
the initialized class if you
fail on your initialized.
We pass you the bundle just
for your reference so you
can get it any other ways.
In this case,
Terminate class is called once when the
plugin is not going to be used anymore.
We don't do anything.
Next part is the
Get PDEs for Plugin Type.
What this does is basically this is
where you instantiate your PDE classes.
Basically,
we do a get plug-in for PDE type.
We pass you the PDE type,
whether it be app for the
print dialog or page setup.
We also pass you in the current printer
that is selected in the print dialog.
So basically, we allocate an array.
We do an alloc init
on our sample app PDE,
add it to the array, and basically,
if we got anything back,
we return that array or we return nil.
Next thing we do is we
initialize our class.
And here, this is where we pass you
the callback mechanism,
the callback object.
We pass it in, you just retain it,
and you can use it
throughout your other things.
And then terminate is the same thing.
We just, when we're done,
we're going to terminate the PDE.
We're just going to basically
release your reference to that.
One thing new about the Cocoa PDEs,
we only ask for your view when
we're going to show your view.
So there is no need to create your view,
you know, during initialize or open.
We will tell you when,
we'll ask you for the view
when we're ready for it.
So basically here we are just,
we haven't initialized it yet,
we just do a, we load our nib.
Then we return the top view.
Next thing is PDE name, PDE type,
and PDE kind.
These are fairly similar to what
we had before in the Tioga stuff,
but here it's like we
call you when we need it.
You have to know it up front.
And we just call it whenever you need it.
And another change that we did was sync.
Sync,
you had to remember where you're going,
where you're reading from the ticket,
writing to the ticket, where am I at?
So we actually separated
out these two calls,
and now we have write values to ticket,
and read values to ticket.
I'll do write values first.
Basically here we just go
to write values to ticket,
we get our button, we say it's state,
create an NSData for that,
and here we are using our callback
methods to get the print settings.
So we use the callback object,
get the print settings, we get it back,
and we're using the API that
Paul just showed us,
the PM Printing,
CM Print Settings Set Value,
which basically sets the
app using your app key.
And then read values from ticket is
basically just the opposite of that.
The Mac OS X printing system
is the integration point
for many key technologies.
View this session to get the most
out of the Mac OS X printing system.
Paul Danbold, Alan Beck,
Richard Blanchard The Mac OS X printing
system is the integration point
for many key technologies.
View this session to get the most
out of the Mac OS X printing system.
Paul Danbold, Alan Beck,
Richard Blanchard
Yeah.
Basically print selection only, yes, no.
We get to create the dict
with a summary and info.
This is only one item,
so we're adding an array and
we're adding the item to the
dict and returning that array.
Show, hide,
is basically what it was before.
We call this right before we're
going to show your PDE and hide,
go hide right before we hide the PDE.
Another thing we're doing,
so that's those two.
And finally,
we have Git-supported PPD option keys,
which is basically for the
PM printer module vendors.
This is in a way of dynamically
telling us what PPD options
you are supporting in your PDE,
so they won't show up
in the other settings,
the advanced settings of PDE pane.
Rather than a static in your static
in your info dict info p list,
we can return the array right here.
And the other one here,
the last one is PPD value change,
something we're working on
that's not quite implemented yet,
dealing with PPD value constraint,
constraint resolution.
So basically,
we're not really quite ready to talk
about this yet because we're still in
the process of figuring out exactly what,
how we're going to deal with this.
So let's go ahead and save this.
Hopefully, I can build this.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so basically,
I will go to the summary
slide while that reboots,
and I will show you when that reboots,
hopefully.
Let's get the slides back on.
This is a little summary of
what we need for Cocoa PDEs.
Basically,
they're implemented as loadable bundles,
so we don't have any of the
CFBundle stuff with the I unknown,
all that other stuff.
The other thing is your class must
conform to the PDE dialog protocol,
plug-in protocol.
We've added the PDE callback object,
which allows you to get information
from the printing system,
such as your print session,
your print settings, your page format,
your current printer.
Also, in there at the end,
it lets you tell us to do certain things.
The two current methods
are to resize the panel.
You want to tell us how
high you want it to resize,
you know,
what size you want the new panel to be.
So you can do a disclosure widget,
and that way, we will,
you can resize your view,
then we'll resize the print
dialog to reflect that view.
What I want to say is,
you can use the full
Cocoa functionality inside your PDE,
such as the bindings.
You can bind to a dictionary,
and then in your right
settings to ticket,
you can basically use
the bindings that way.
And the other thing is,
this sample code that I just did,
plus showing the resize,
is going to be available
on the ADC Seeds Server.
Are we back up yet?
No, we are...
Okay, I'll be back up in a little
bit using for Richard.
and maybe I'll have time,
maybe we'll be back up by
then so I can show it to him.
So here's Richard.
Richard Blaenchard: Thank you, Alan.
Not just for the demo,
which Colonel Panic,
that's pretty rare actually in printing,
but actually for all that work.
And if anybody's written plug-ins
before for the print dialog,
one of the first things you have to
fight your way through is the CF plug-in,
I unknown stuff,
which I've done a couple times
and it was well worth all the
effort Alan did on this just so
I didn't have to do that again.
So thank you very much, Alan.
It probably helps you too, but we'll see.
Last year, we spent an hour,
I spent an hour with you talking
about the two different printing
paths we have in printing.
We have our PDF printing path,
our preferred printing path,
and we have our LaserEyedR8
legacy printing path.
We spent that hour really talking about
all the benefits of the PDF printing
path and doing a lot of begging,
asking you,
"Please don't use the legacy printing
path." I'm here to beg a little bit more,
no offense,
but in the last year we've come up
with another reason why we really
want you to use the PDF printing path,
and that's Automator, and it's Automator
tied into PDF Workflow.
So we're going to do a couple demos,
and we're going to remind you, well,
I think we're going to do a couple demos,
and we're going to remind
you what was in PDF Workflow.
So PDF Workflow is a
feature we added in 10.2.4.
It's been around for a long time,
but it's always been hidden.
You had to enable a special folder and
put these PDF Workflow items in that
folder before the print dialog changed
to show you this new functionality.
The important parts about PDF Workflow,
well, PDF Workflow were two.
One, it allowed you to hook the
print system on the user side.
Normally when you print,
we take the PDF spool file,
we submit it via an IP connection
to the print server,
and then the print job takes place
potentially on a different machine,
but most certainly in a different
context and running as a different user.
And so if you want to put --
make a back end or a filter
that's going to present UI,
you have a lot of difficulties.
You may be on a completely different
machine than the user submitted a job,
bad,
or you just may be in a different context
and not be running as the same user,
so you can't write to
that user's folders.
Or access their files.
So PDF Workflow avoids those
problems by letting you do that
all up front in the user's context,
running as the user's ID.
So that was one about PDF Workflow.
The other important part about
PDF Workflow is that we have
this digital master concept.
We ask all our applications
when they print to please
render in the full fidelity.
Give us your high resolution bitmaps.
Give us as many vectors as you can.
Don't give us rasterized
images of your vectors.
Give us the best fidelity you can.
Give us the highest fidelity.
And that's what we call digital master,
digital master PDF.
We dutifully capture all of your drawing.
With Workflow,
you can then write a tool to
manipulate the full fidelity
digital master from the application.
So that's the idea behind digital
-- or behind PDF Workflow.
It's been there for a while.
We have it documented.
You should go look at it if
you've never looked at it.
It's pretty exciting.
It's enabled always now in Tiger,
and this is a big deal.
It's always been a great feature,
but you had to know the secret.
So now it's always there.
And as Alan showed previously,
it comes defaulting this way on your CD.
So you can see that it's always there.
And then you can see it on your CDs with
Save As PDF and Save As PostScript.
But as you add your own Workflow items,
this pop-up menu will grow.
And if you're somebody like me
who's written a few of these,
it can grow quite a bit.
And you just start making
things that are useful.
You'll see applications drawn in there,
so I can send my PDF documents
over into things like Illustrator,
which is great at handling PDFs,
obviously,
sending it to Acrobat or sending
it to tools that'll break down PDF,
rasterize the PDFs,
anything you really imagine
you can do with Workflow.
So what kind of things
can you put in workflow?
And again,
this is the type of list that we've
supported since really 10.2.4.
You can put a folder into
the PDF services folder,
into the workflow folder.
If you put a folder in there,
that creates a hierarchical menu
in your PDF workflow pop-up.
So this allows you to
organize your workflow items.
You can put a folder alias in there.
A folder alias, when selected from that
printer pop-up menu,
will take the PDF spool file
and just move it into the
resolved alias of this folder.
So I use this a lot for web receipts.
This is an example I just happen to like.
I make an alias of a web receipts
folder I make in my documents folder.
I put it in PDF services.
And now whenever I buy anything online,
I go to my workflow menu
and I say web receipts.
And it just makes a copy of my receipt,
stores it there.
And now with Spotlight,
it's easy to search.
So the whole thing works
pretty well together.
Also, hot folders for applications
like Distiller are good this way.
You can make aliases of applications,
put them in there.
When that's selected,
we send an open event to the
application with the PDF spool file.
So you can use Mail or
Photoshop's one I use a lot.
You can use Apple scripts.
And you can write your own tools.
And the tools can be written in
either C or Objective C or Perl
or Python or anything you want.
But what's new now in Tiger is Automator.
So we allow you to create
an Automator pipeline,
an Automator set of actions,
an Automator script.
The terminology is varying.
Put that in your PDF service folder.
Now users can make their own workflow.
And this is incredibly powerful,
and it's very exciting.
I've been doing a lot of work on this.
For example, one of the ones you see a
lot with PDF workflow is,
hey, I want to take this PDF out of
whatever application is printing,
grab the PDF, and mail it to somebody.
And there are a lot of
different ways to do this.
You can take an alias, a mail,
and drop it in there.
And then what you get when you select
that is a new document comes up in mail,
a new mail message.
But it's not, it doesn't have a person
you're sending to.
It doesn't have a destination.
So here's an example of an Automator
script where you can set it up and say,
hey, whenever this gets selected,
I always want to send it
to this particular person.
Here's the text I want, and add the PDF.
And assuming that we're back up,
we're going to go to demo one here.
And I'm just going to
show you that quick.
Automator workflow example,
because it is nice how easy it is to do.
So if we go over into Automator.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Back to the previous demo.
Back to my previous mishap.
So this is a Cocoa PDE.
It is a print-selected-text-only.
It does work.
And here's showing the callback
mechanism that allows the PDE to resize
itself and do progressive disclosure.
So it does work.
OK, now back to Automator.
So basically,
what we're going to do is we
are going to-- let's go to Mail.
Let's get the new email.
Richard Blaenchard, Alan Beck,
Richard Blaenchard,
Let's say, stuff.
Please, let's review.
Okay,
now I'm going to go ahead and save this.
I'm going to put it in my PDF services
and I'm going to say email and we're
going to save it as an application.
So let's go ahead and save that.
Now, okay.
So now it is now in our PDF services.
So let's go over here.
Let's go to my documents
and let's go to...
The various little league schedule
that Rich wanted to know about.
So we're going to go to here.
We're going to go ahead
and try to print it.
And lo and behold, there's our email.
And here is Winter Rich,
and here is our PDF document
that is attached to it.
All right.
Very simple.
Thank you.
So we'll come back on over to the slides,
please.
And again, the idea is that's very
easy for a user to do,
right?
They've just made their
own workflow item.
Because we're so PDF-centric,
we really want to provide
a set of automator actions
that will manipulate PDFs.
We want users and new developers
to be able to make powerful
PDF manipulation automator tools,
provide them via workflow,
so that workflow menu
becomes very powerful.
So what we're doing,
or what we've done actually,
is we've written PDF action
items to extract pages from PDFs,
to join them, to watermark them,
and we'll be doing a bunch more.
I expect we'll have probably a dozen or
two of these actions by default in the
system in Tiger by the time we ship.
I wanted to show next,
we'll go back to the demo machine,
we'll see how these work together
inside of another automator.
Basically, let's go ahead and see if
we can find our PDF items.
Okay, here they are.
We have three of them.
So let's just go ahead
and first one will be to,
let's get our Audit and Even pages.
Let's go ahead and put
them in separate files.
And then we're going to,
let's try to watermark them.
So basically we're going to add,
what should we add?
Let's add a blue and a green apple.
Basically, so the goal here is to put a
blue apple on the odd pages and
a green apple on the even pages.
So let's go ahead and make
the apple a little bit bigger.
Let's make it show it's underneath.
And let's just turn it just a bit and
let's turn down the opacity of it.
[Transcript missing]
We want to go to the PDF services.
Let's name this one, let's say,
Watermark.
We want to save it as an application.
Save.
Okay, now let's go open,
let's look at all the schedules.
So it has 39 pages in it.
Let's go ahead and print this.
Go to here, here's our watermark.
Launching the pipeline.
Okay, here's the first page
with the blue apple,
green apple, blue apple, green apple,
all the way through to the end.
Thank you, Alan.
So what I like about that demo is
it's a non-trivial example of what you
can do with Automator and Workflow.
If somebody asked you to do that,
I want you to watermark this
document and have different
watermarks on the odd and even pages.
I know how you can maybe do it manually,
but if they wanted you to run
through a set of documents,
I wouldn't know where to start.
I guess I would.
I'd probably go to Python scripting
and start writing some Python code,
but maybe a user wouldn't.
So if we can go back to the slides.
All right,
so that's the power of Automator.
That's the power of
PDF workflow put together.
So the question is, well,
how can your applications take
advantage of this integration?
And it is simple.
It's what we've always told you.
Please use the PDF workflow
path or the PDF printing path.
You can do that by drawing with Quartz.
That's the way we preferred you to do it.
You can do it drawing with Quick Draw,
even though that's deprecated.
If you go through the normal
Quick Draw printing path,
you'll generate a PDF spool file.
What will not work is if you use the
LaserWriter 8 legacy printing path.
That path is not being expanded.
It's not being supported anymore.
It still exists.
And I have a tough time with people here.
We actually have a little
time so I can do this analogy.
Last year when I said, "Hey,
we're deprecating this," I had five, six,
seven application writers coming
up to me and very worried.
"That means you're taking out
the LaserWriter 8 legacy printing
path for Panther?" And they said,
"No, we're not.
We're not taking out.
It's just deprecated." I said, "Well,
then it'll be taken out for
the next version." They said,
"No,
we're not taking it out there." I said,
we're not taking it out there either."
And you quickly lose any fear that
you can put in anybody when you say,
"Hey,
it's deprecated," when you tell them,
"Yeah,
but it's not going away." So the idea
is we have to balance two things.
We really don't want
you to use this feature,
but we have to maintain
binary compatibility.
And so I use this historical
analogy of baseball.
In 1920,
Major League Baseball decided they
didn't want spitballs around anymore,
so they deprecated them.
But they had this binary compatibility
problem that they had pitchers who
were still working and still working.
They were still in the
field using spitballs.
So what they decided to do was
let those pitchers keep working.
They supported them.
But new pitchers could
not use the spitball,
could not use the deprecated spitball.
So the point is,
if you have a spitball application
using the LaserWriter8 legacy path,
we definitely will keep you running.
We will.
But if you're working
on a new application,
please don't use it.
Or if you're even
revving your application,
please sit down seriously and
consider ways that you can get off
the LaserWriter8 legacy printing path.
And we'll help you.
We've done new APIs like the submission
dial or the print submissions APIs.
We'll help you in any way we can.
We did the font creation APIs for you.
So let us know what you need,
and we'll get you off that.
And you can stop
throwing those spitballs.
Just quickly going back
to the PDF workflow,
there are a couple APIs that are
interesting if you really like
the workflow and you want to maybe
write an application that will
master workflow in a different
way than the print dialog does.
So if you want to do what
our print dialog does,
here are the two APIs.
PM workflow copy items will go
look in the directories where the
user can install the workflow items
and will come back with a list.
It's essentially an array of
CFURLs that is all the workflow
items this user has set up.
And if you need to run one,
you just call PM workflow
submit PDF with options,
give the workflow item you want to run,
the title of the document,
a bunch of options,
and the PDF file you want to process.
And this is all our print dialog does.
And so if you wanted to write something
that was not Distiller but somewhat
akin to Distiller and that you had
a batch processing application that
you were running workflows through,
these two calls will let you do it.